Welcome back.
And in this lesson I can assure you even more that you can do with the dog.
So previously we saw all of the wonderful information that's contained within the dome.
We can also write to the document so we can do something like this.
And this is one of the methods to build more than the dome.
So we saw that when we put all of this information.
Not all values.
Some of them are actually more objects that are deeper objects and then we can traverse through them
and get the values and then we also had some methods here.
So these ones here are not exactly.
You're not going to return back of value because these are look connected to methods.
So we also have the ability to write to the document.
And this is one of the ones that is available with the document object where we specified document right.
And then within the parentheses we typo and whatever string value that we want to write it.
So this way we can actually write into our H-2 page and we noticed that whenever I click over this particular
element it's visible now with a source code of that element.
But it's actually not directly built into our source code.
So we see that once the browser renders the say that it reads the javascript and it adds this particular
string value which is located just underneath the script tags because we're typing it within the script.
So it just simply adds in the next available slot within within the web page.
And that's just after the script times.
So that's where the hello world is just falling there and it actually gets displayed to the user.
So we are able to communicate to the user via the DOM and put content that's actually visible from our
javascript to the web users
and immediately there is a downside to the document.
Right.
And we notice that if for instance I wanted to type some content within this div I'd have to recreate
the script tags and then I'd have to enter in the document right with him there.
And really this isn't really an efficient way to do that.
So it does actually work but it's not the best way to do that.
So there is another solution and that's using some of the built methods that are already available preprogramed
ready to go.
Using the document object so we know that the document it builds so that all of the information that's
contained within the web page.
And we also know that all of this information is then stored and it's accessible via our Javascript.
So if for instance we want to output Hello world between these dids we also do want to keep our script
separated from each TNL.
So that's bad practice.
So we need a way to identify the element where we want to input where we want to put that content into.
So let's create an element we'll give it an ID and using the IDS is one of the most basic ways of selecting
elements.
And this is the next step where we need to select the element.
So we need to be able to identify the intimates re-added in the ID so we know that if we had a whole
bunch of elements here that we can pick this one up and this is the one that we want to place and make
use of within our Javascript.
So let's make that connection and instead of a document right I'm going to say I should probably need
to change quite a bit of this.
So we're want to document and the method is going to be get element by ID.
So it's get caught up capital element by id and then within a string ID we need to we need to indicate
what the ID is that we're grabbing.
We don't need to create a hash here because this is already an ID.
So the javascript method is already expecting that ID so it knows to look for within your H-2 melt code.
The element that has the ID of output.
And if you try to specify one that's not not within each two elements it's going to throw an error because
it's not going to be able to find it.
So it knows within the syntax that it has to go and look for this particular input and then we know
that we're actually placing this within our javascript and connecting it.
So how to see what sort of next step how do we we saw earlier that we can set up a variable and that
variable can contain information and it can also contain the object information.
So we know that this element is going to have a whole bunch of information attached to it.
So it's not just that we've got that one element.
So let me refresh the page and let's take a closer look at.
We can go down and dig down deep.
We know that this div has a whole bunch of information and it also has it's got a lot of separate smaller
notes that are also attached to it.
So everything within the dorm is considered a node.
But we also have new ones that are in other nodes and so on.
So we need to really be able to pull back and when we're specifying ID we're grabbing this entire object.
So let's place this with an object value.
So we just call this we'll call it output so that when we know that output the output object is tied
to that output ID you don't have to call it the same it can be called differently.
So this is just proven instances of this demonstration.
We're calling it output because we've got a variable name output and an ID need output.
So let's go back and let's refresh the page.
And now let's see what value is contained with that output.
So we see when we select it we get that instrumental element being returned back.
So let's try something different was to console log.
And we saw that directory previously it would put our content our dorm information in a more about object
structure format that's readable.
And this is the same case where we've selected this output as an object.
We've got all of the information that's contained within it and we see that now we can make use of it
because now when prodded into our javascript code and we see that there's a lot of the same types of
values.
And the one that I want to look at in particular for this lesson is this one here the inner text or
inner to go out.
So now that we've selected it and we've put it put into an object we can make use of that object and
we can specify just as we did with other objects where we specify a value.
So if this one contained a value right off the bat it would be within that inner HVM L..
So we saw with objects that we can actually overwrite the value.
So let's overwrite.
Hello world.
And we'll see what happens.
So I go back and refresh the page and we see that initially within our source code output has a value
of Hello within it but we've actually grabbed that element and we've updated the value of inner h to
melt and we've set it up as world.
And with each team.
That basically means that it actually accepts each team.
So let's refresh that again and we can write each DML content within our elements.
And there was another one as well that was called in or text.
So we show you what the difference is and if we try to write this now as you are taxed you can see that
when you refresh it it's actually going to take those each to mail tags.
It's going to simply output it as text.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and this is where the challenge comes in.
Open up your editor and create a simple div give it an ID for instance output and then update the content.
So start out with some plain content here and say within your javascript.
So all you're going to have is a simple blank each time element using javascript.
Grab that element and add within that element.
Welcome to my page using javascript so we use javascript to accomplish this.
And I hope you get an opportunity to give it a go try it for yourself.
And now let me show you the solution is.
So I already had that output document element by ID but I can actually shorten this because I don't
want to put it in a variable and I can't simply do it by document element by id and then I can specify
the interface to Mel.
It can be inner text as well so both of them would be correct.
And we want to write out a message.
So welcome to my page and close off that statement.
And then the rest of this will just simply remove it go back.
Refresh your browser and there you go.
So it's as easy as that to create those interactions within the content of your age Tim Page and the
next lesson.
I can assure you even more that you can do using that on.